"We will set up offices at major corporate headquarters across the nation, and we will investigate all business transactions, and any financial crime caught in the act will be held accountable. Thank you."



The people off camera clap and cheer in good faith. And in a shady tavern in the poorest area of the city, a man sits wearing such dark heavy clothing that he casts a shadow. His long long thick wool trench coat was navy blue with the collar flipped up, and his fedora was died as dark as the night.



A drunken laborer sitting next to him studies him up and down before laughing. The shadowy man paid little attention, busy sipping on his water.



"You know what mister? I don't mean to be rude, but you look like a man late for the past. You and I both. Cheers!"



The drunk lifts his glass in the air. The shadowy man said nothing but made the same gesture. They drank in silence.



A private investigator rummages through the computer of a rundown old office building. The company is believed to filter criminal transactions into a private account before destroying information by dumping it in digital black holes that break the information down into undecipherable jargon. He lights up a cigarette. He wasn't supposed to smoke in the office, but he didn't think the mice and mosquitoes would mind.



It was stressful work. He'd been at it going on weeks now, and their system is so state of the art, that their digital files might as well be shredded, burned, and the ashes diluted in water.



"It's going to take astrophysicists possibly centuries before they figure out how to translate, and reconfigure decipherable information from the surface of the black holes. And even then that's up to speculation until workable techniques are developed."



He drops his cigarette in the trashcan and almost starts several dusty golden pages of dried documents on fire. He has a eureka moment. He gets on his phone. He calls his boss.



The shadowy man's phone rings and he picks it up. He listens in on the conversation.



"Sir, do you know where they keep their paper files?" asked Detective Willard.



"Top floor, detective. Why do you ask?" asked Chief Miller.



"Sir, with the technology that we have it's still impossible to decipher their methods, and I have a Ph.D in Cryptology," said Willard.



"Waste enough tax dollars before finally having the balls to tell me what I already know. Have you found anything?" asked Miller.



"Destroying transactions online is a federal crime if I'm not mistaken," said Willard.



"But without the solid evidence, it's all pure speculation," said Miller.



"That's why we need a team to dig through all these files. If we find the accounts and the tracking numbers, we can start finding holes in their finances, and trace it back to their illegal online transactions," said Willard.



"That's good, detective. The physical files are in the sub basement. Gods speed. And if you need a Certified Document Examiner, let me know right away - and keep me posted!"



The shadowy man hangs up the phone, leaves a tip and leaves the tavern more serious than ever. He walks out, leaving nothing but coldness and chills behind him.



Detective Willard, Certified Crypto Forensic Analysts left his cigarettes as he climbs the stairs to the basement. He pulls out a solid set of keys handed over as evidence until further notice. He rummages through them until he finds the right key. He opens the basement door, locks it behind him, and walks on over large dark stairway leading down. He flips on the light app, and looks around. The floor is part flooded with boxes and boxes of drenched moldering papers. He looks over at a huge pile strategically places in the far corner. He digs to the bottom and pulls out one of the boxes. He flips on the old light hanging from the ceiling and starts rummaging through them. He starts to notice a pattern. They are all getting filtered through .GCON, an arcane system even for Detective Willard. He wasn't even familiar with it. He calls his boss.



"Hi, sir. I think I have something. Ever hear of .GCON?" asked Willard.



He hears aloud sound like that of an empty tin can being kicked over.



"Did you hear that, sir?" asked Willard.



"Did I hear what, Detective?" said Miller.



A shadow slips by out of the corner of the detective's eye.



"I locked the door. I swear I-"



A loud explosion is heard, and then the call ends. The sub basement explodes into flames, killing the detective. The firemen arrive at their leisure, taking their time killing the flames, and busy cleaning away evidence before the chief of the FBI arrived. He looks at the scene and his eyes almost explode out of his head.



"I haven't seen this mishandling of a crime scene since the turn of the Nineteenth Century. What's gotten into you boys?" said Miller.



The men hang their heads in shame until their out of site, where they begin to gossip about what they plan to do with the money. They leave just as the Fire Examiners arrive, giving only their written statements, and speaking very little... Several federal agents walk up to the crime scene.



"This is bad, Chief Miller. How did it happen?" asked Agent Hunter.



"He was fired bombed. I heard it on the phone. I was the last one to - so much lost potential" said Miller.



He begins to cry. He ties holding back the tears, shaking all over before pulling himself back together. The other agents comfort him. A light rain slowly falls on their head. The streets slick from the oils mixing with the dirt and the rain.



"Can you keep a secret?" asked Miller.



They all shake their heads, yes.



"This is very serious. Hand me your phones," said Miller.



He takes them, throws them in a Faraday bag made out of carbon mesh metal, and closes it. He takes them off to the side.



"Is anyone here familiar with .GCON?" asked Miller. They all look at him confused except for Hunter. He smiles.



"That old address belongs to the Infinity Lounge," said Hunter.



One of them gives a sharp eyed look before acting like they have no clue what he's talking about. No one takes notice, all eyes on Federal Agent Hunter. He smiles, basking in his nerdom.



".GCON is short for Great Conversation. People once believed that every conversation becomes part of the Great Conversation, a kind of linguistic heritage that we all share," said Hunter.



"Go on. My ears are open" said Miller.



"In the early twenty first century, the western world took this idea to the next level. They believed that every conversation still exists out in space or bouncing off the earth forever. We humans never found the means to put this to practice. So instead they built the Infinity Lounge in 2050. It took all the literature and work of every known person and built a program that plugs into your mind, allowing you to meet every documented human personality in history. People visited celebrities, and of course loved ones. Why do you ask, chief?" asked Hunter.



".GCON was the last thing Willard mentioned before this tragedy. The mayor is going to have a field day with this one," said Miller.



"One other thing, Chief," said Hunter.



"What, Hunter?" said Miller.



"The Infinity Lounge has gone out of style in recent years. But I know a lot of rouge scholars who use it for research. It goes against the principles of most universities, so I never used it myself, but I knew others who did," said Hunter.



"Why is it banned?" asked Agent Bogart.



"Censorship reasons. The books we know today are heavily edited. This project was created back before mass global censorship. It makes the purity of their message radical in the eyes of the oligarchy," said Hunter.



"I see," said Miller.



"It's also been banned because the criminal underground uses it to communicate with each other," said Hunter.



Miller's eyes go wide. He has a eureka moment.



"That's it! The transactions filter through the Infinity Lounge before being dumped into the digital tar pit. That was the whole ruse. Those transactions are somewhere on that system, and it we need to find out where. How do we get into the system, Hunter?" asked Miller.



"I can hack straight into it from my office, sir," said Hunter.



"Well, let's go," said Miller



Hunter makes a circle around his desk. Several wires hang from the computer tower.



"We only have enough hardware for one of us," said Hunter.



"I'll go," said Miller. "I owe it to Willard."



Federal Agent Kindred slips out of the room. She walks down the hall texting on her phone. She types, On 2 US before sending the text. A few minutes later the shadowy man opens his phone and gets the message. He closes it, and walks down the alleys towards the FBI Headquarters.



Miller adds the pads to his forehead before closing his eyes and winching. A USB like wire gets logged into the back of his head. He opens his eyes to find himself bathed in pure light. He hears a soft woman's voice.



"Welcome to the Infinity Lounge."



He looks around and finds himself sitting alone around a small circular table with an empty chair adjacent to him.



He takes a deep breath. "Why does this feel so real?" asked Miller behind his white fedora and aviator sunglasses.



He pulls out a handkerchief, and wipes the sweat off his face. He takes off his tan overcoat, revealing his three piece suit.



"And for such a realistic simulation, why is it so stuffy in here?"



His detectives badge shines as he peers around at the other round tables going off forever into infinity.



"Is that better, detective?" asked the voice in the sky.



The air around the detective blew in pleasant gusts. The detective nods his head in approval, rolls up his sleeves, pulls out a cigarette, lights it up, takes a long deep drag, and lets out a long stream of thick smoke.



"Tastes like the real thing. I've quit many years ago. I can get use to this," says the detective.



"Would you like something to drink? Anything? It doesn't cost a thing," said the voice in the sky.



"I want a Mimosa made from the finest Champagne and Fresh Pressed Orange juice from the finest orchard on Earth," said the detective.



A crystal wine flute with a crisp orange liquid began to manifest on the table. He picks it up, sips it, is blown back by the flavor, and sips it down, pausing to savor the sparkly grapes and the pulpy citrus. He lets out a smile.



"Don't worry, detective. You won't get drunk. Not unless you want to get drunk. No judgments here, detective. You wouldn't be the first to use this program to drown out all your worries. Here, have another one, detective."



The detective sips it down, one right after the other, as he chain smokes, lighting each cigarette off of the last one.



"I'm not here to wash away my troubles. I'm here looking for somebody," said Chief Miller.



"Oh," said the voice in the sky.



A transparent blue image of an attractive young woman sits across the table from him.



"Do you have a photo, name, or any kind of description?" asked the young woman.



Miller shakes his head, no. He clenches his knuckles, slides out another cigarette, lights it up, and smokes it in heavy bursts, taking in long drawls of concentrated smoke.



"I got a lead that referred me to this simulation. I don't know why. I find it outdated and insignificant."



"As a man of the law, Federal Chief Miller, I could see how you would carry that opinion."



"What do you mean?"



"I've said too much. If you want to know more, talk to someone much braver. And not here, somewhere private."



"Fine. I come seeking my own table," said Miller.



The shouting softens away as he safely sits in a private table. Across from him is an empty chair, which he looks and stares at for over three minutes.



"Who would you like to speak to first, Detective?" asked the soft voice.



"I guess I'll invite... Hmmm... Who should I invite?" he asked.



"What is your sole purpose of being here?" asked the soft voice.



"If I was writing a detective novel, who would I investigate?"



A thin outline of a human turns into a ghost until it looked like a real human being. It was that of an elderly woman. She looks at him and smiles.



"And who the hell are you?" asked Miller.



"I'm Agatha Christie," said the woman.



She wore a thick dress in fashion at the turn of the twentieth century, a large emerald pendant and a large straw hat with a pretty white ribbon. She sips on tea from a fine china glass, smiling.



"I have no time for classic literature. I'm sorry. I was hoping for someone more modern."



She giggles so hard she spits up some of her tea.



"I know all about murder, Detective Miller. It is my Specialty. I keep up to date on all true crime both past and present. It is a macabre little hobby of mine."



"So then you know?" asked Miller.



"Oh yes, I know all about the firebombing, love," said Christie.



"How am I supposed to trust that you're not, you know, one of them?" asked Miller.



"I not only wrote about crimes, I solved some of my own. I am organized crimes worse nightmare. And if you still don't trust me, may I suggest someone like Ellis H. Parker, a truly divine Detective in his day?"



Miller stopped and thought it through before lighting another cigarette.



"Who firebombed Detective Willard?" asked Miller.



"If I knew, I would have told you already," said Agatha Christie.



"Do you know why he was firebombed?" asked Miller.



"Oh yes, because of all the illegal activity going on," said Christie.



"What illegal activity?" said Miller.



"This program houses all dead souls on both sides of the law," said Christie.



"Who is behind it all?" said Miller.



"Nobody really knows who approached who. Some say it was Al Capone, others say it was a couple of rouge scholars from your side that approached Pablo Escobar," said Agatha Christie.



"For what?" said Miller.



"This program has a built-in money check out," said Agatha Christie.



"How does it work?" asked Detective Miller.



"Originally, this program was a paid service before it fell out of style. Then along came censorship once again. And slowly, we became the dark web," said Christie.



She pauses to sip her tea as the detective lights another cigarette.



"The only way to get in now is to either hack in or pay the subscription fee," said Christie.



"Do you know where I can get a hold of those records?" said Miller.



"No, I know little about the business side, and even less about computers. But I know some people who do. It is far safer there, however, to go their locks you into this world until we let you out. To be unplugged from where we will go could destroy your mind. Some have even died, the lucky slip into a coma before early dementia. Are you willing to take that chance, detective?" said Christie.



"I trust my team. Do you trust yours?" said Miller.



"I do," said Christie.



A portal opens up in the room. Miller follows her in. Its stacks of tables with endless conversations going on from the floor to far up into the heavens. It looked like sky scrapers broken up into square blocks. It was like a city without the metal skirting. They walked for some time.



"This is called the main chamber where all conversations are stored, except we're stepping through it at a different angle," said Agatha Christie.



"It would take the whole FBI a million years to listen in onto every one of these conversations. I wouldn't know where to start," said Miller.



"That is exactly the point. It would impossible, well almost impossible. But it is not safe to speak here. However, I do have a theory about Willard's death," said Christie.



"And what is that?" said Miller.



"Those files must have belonged to the original company owners. Whoever owns the company now does not want those files leading back to them," said Christie.



"Dear God, he had the Tiger by the tail, and it didn't hesitate to snap its jaws back" said Miller.



"Here we are" said Christie.



It's a small brick building with concrete stairs leading to a large metal door. She does a secret knock and the door unhinges. They walk in.



They stand around Miller waiting patiently for his return. The building is nearly empty for the night, the majority of on duty agents are thick in the field. The dark shadowy man walks in. He walks up to the security guard, and shows him his badge. His face hidden in the shadows.



"I never heard of any agent by that name before," said the Security Officer, "however I'm not familiar with that particular shift, so let me look you up real quick." He grabs the badge and starts punching in numbers. He types slower and slower as he goes until he is fast asleep, the keyboard his pillow. The shadowy man grabs the badge, the man's keys, and his key card. He heads up the elevator.



DING!



The elevator door open, and he walks out, adjusting the assault rifle under his trench coat. He walks towards a well lit office at the other side of the building three stories up. He steps back into the elevator.



The room looked like the office of a Private Investigator from the roaring twenties. Papers were all over the place, and so were typewriters. It was booming with laughter until Miller stepped in. They stop and look at him dumbfounded.



"And who is this?" asked Isaac Asimov.



"This is Bernard Miller, chief for the FBI," said Agatha Christie.



"About time," said Edgar Allen Poe.



"What is this?" asked Miller.



"We started out as a book club, but have spent the last two decades investigating the criminal activity going on all around us," said Asimov.



"It started out as Edgar Allen Poe, Wilkie Collins, C.K. Chesterton, Isaac Asimov, Arthur Conan Doyle and myself, but soon grew to include Charles Schultz, Stieg Larson, Dashiell Hammett, Ellis Parker and James Fitzgerald."



"Agent Willard was killed before he could find us, Chief," said James Fitzgerald.



"You're the criminal profiler who took down Ted Kacynski, the UNABOM'ER," said Miller.



"Yes, and these men are the type that Kacynski warned us about. They are the most ruthless gang of white collar criminals the world has ever known," said James Fitzgerald.



"But who are they?" asked Miller.



"They're prominent members of the Techno Oligarchy - crypto-bankers, politicians, software developers, and computer industrialists among others. Their wealth encompasses 90 per cent of the world's wealth, and 98 per cent of all physical and intellectual property in this world and the next," said Fitzgerald.



"Do you have any names?"



"They keep all that information under heavy surveillance," said Charles Schultz.



"Is their anyway to break in to their system?" asked Miller.



"No. In order for the program to work without corruption, the designers built a series of three passwords more complex than an email. Nobody, not even the original designers know all the codes. But like it matters, because they're all dead now. Which is why this program was censored instead of dismantled," said Charles Schultz.



"Why would they give up so much control to the program?" asked Miller.



"They wanted the information that came in to be incorruptible. Because who would pay to visit family, or meet a dead celebrity if they could be so easily manipulated? The whole project would never have been a success," said Schultz.



"Is their anyway to find out who's behind this?" asked Miller.



"We know a few dissidents, but the only way to get to them is by knowing the password. And the only way to get the right password is through a credit card transaction. And being that this site is illegal, doing so will cost you your career, and possibly jail time," said Schultz.



"I'll have to get a subpoena. And once I do, I'll need to know who I should interrogate," said Miller.



"Ted Kacynski," said James Fitzgerald.



"Allen Pinkerton," said Edgar Allen Poe.



"And Edward Snowden," said Charles Schultz.



"These are the ones brave enough to stand up against the system alone while the rest of hid under our little tables," said Isaac Asimov.



"Speak for yourself, geek. It had to be done simply so we could have this conversation," said Hammett.



"I can't even leave this place without being under threat," said Schultz.



"One last thing. Why are the computer simulations helping the living?" asked Miller.



The shadowy man walks up to the office where Miller sits vulnerable, still plugged in and in deep sleep. He pulls out his assault weapon, where Hunter catches it with his eye. He lunges at the man, using his strength to tackle him to the ground. Agent Kindred pulls out her pistol, as the other two agents fight to retrieve it out of her hands.



"They are doing this for the money. The living pays them a certain percentage for every piece of blackmail, every dollar laundered and for the exchange of top secret information. And in return, they protect the program from destruction, and furnish them with promises of a second life in your world. But now you are in danger, and you must go now!" said Christie.



She grabs him by the hand and rushes him out. They run down the tall stacks on tables to the exit. Miller wills himself from his slumber. Waking up to find his agents lying dead on the floor. The shadowy man grabs him by the throat.



"You were warned not to step out of line, Bernard," said the shadowy man.



"That was before you killed my agents" said Miller.



The man squeezes harder on his throat. Miller lifts his feet and kicks him off of him. He scrambles from the derringer strapped to his ankle. He pulls it out and shots a bullet through his head. The man falls to the ground, sparks shoot from his forehead.



"An android. There are only three companies in the world with that type of technology," said Miller.



The android rises up. Miller pulls out a Bowie knife, slicking an electrical wire in half. He shoves it in the androids bullet hole. It screams and convulses, the lights in the office flickering on and off before falling limp. Smoke rises up from its scorched body, but it does not move.



"I'm tired of walking on egg shells for you crooked bastards. And I will stop at nothing, until either I am dead or my agents are revenged," said Miller.



Agent Kindred walks in with her pistol behind her back.



"What happened?" asked Kindred.



"I don't know, you tell me, agent. You're the one with blood on her collar," said Miller.



She lifts up her gun, pointing it at his forehead. She pulls the trigger but the gun jams up. She looks at him with wild eyes. He throws the knife, piercing her in the heart. She falls over dead. He stands up, brushing himself off.



"Darkness falls on even the most enlightened," said Miller.



He strips the android of its coat and hat. He walks down to the entrance where the security guard is still fast asleep. He pulls out his badge and key card, and sets it on the front desk.



"I won't need these anymore. I doubt they'll let me out in public after all of this. Fine with me, I'm done being their dog. Time to go underground."



The shadowy man slips out of the office onto the streets. The steam from the fresh rain rising as he slips down dark alleyways towards somewhere safe.





- THE END -



Hope you have enjoyed the reading!



Come back to http://english-e-reader.net/ to find more fascinating and exciting stories!





