UP IN THE AIR



Call the police! It's BASE jumping



What's the most dangerous extreme sport? Maybe it's BASE jumping. In the US, the police put BASE jumpers in prison. Go to France, Norway, or Brazil - you can jump there. John Vincent of New Orleans went to prison for ninety days after a jump. He jumped from a tall building in St. Louis. The police were there when he came down.

BASE jumping started at El Capitan, a 915-meter-high mountain in Yosemite, an American park. In 1978, some people jumped from the mountain with parachutes. People BASE jump there today, too.

In 1981, Phil Smith and Jean Boenisch started the US BASE Association. You have to do 100 skydives and then you get a BASE number. Phil Smith of Houston, Texas, is BASE 1.

Some people BASE jump from 76-meter buildings. That isn't very high! You have to open your parachute very quickly after you jump. You have to fall well and watch the ground. Are there people there? Turn your parachute and move away. Quickly - you don't have much time. And are the police there...?

Why do people do BASE jumping? Because the world is beautiful when you see it from above. And because it's dangerous. About one person each year dies after a jump. BASE jumper Rick Harrison broke his legs on a jump. He shows you his legs and tells you about it. Then he finds a building or a bridge and jumps again.

More people are jumping every year. Who will be the next person in the BASE Association? You?





Bill Moyes - the father of hang gliding



Australian Bill Moyes was thirty-four when he started hang gliding. That's old for an extreme sport! When his son Steve was fourteen, Bill woke him up at four o'clock every morning. They went hang gliding before Steve went to school. Later Steve was a world champion, and there's a movie about Bill and Steve, The Birdmen of Kilimanjaro. The father and son climbed up to the top of the mountain and flew down to the bottom.

Flying was Bill Moyes's life.

He loved to fly, but he didn't like airplanes. In 1966, he flew higher than any man in the world, at 350 meters above the ground. In 1970, he stopped jumping off mountains. Airplanes pulled his hang glider through the sky. In 1971, he flew at 2,866 meters.

Bill Moyes started to make and sell hang gliders. He sold his first hang glider in 1967. He was very happy - and he took the man home for dinner! His son Steve and his daughter Vicki worked with him. They made the Xtralite, the world's number one hang glider. Bill hang glided ten or twelve times every year because he wanted to try his new hang gliders.

When Bill Moyes looks back on his life, is he happy? "I wanted to do these things and I did them," Bill told Hang Gliding magazine. "It wasn't difficult."





SKYDIVING STORIES



"HE DIED FOR ME" Michael Costello's story



Skydive Orlando, at Umatilla, Florida, is famous for skydiving. World champions jump from airplanes here and skydive down through the sky. They fall... and fall... Then they open their parachutes at the last minute.

But Gareth Griffiths from Britain wasn't a world champion skydiver. It was his first visit to Florida and his first skydive. He paid $200 for it. Five friends from Britain watched him from the little airport. They watched Gareth go up in the airplane with his American instructor, Michael Costello.

At 4,000 meters, Michael and Gareth jumped. Gareth was on Michael's back and the parachute was on Gareth's back. They fell to 1,500 meters. All skydivers know that the fall through the sky is beautiful. But at 1,500 meters, Gareth's parachute didn't open. He and Michael fell fast. Gareth's friends at the airport watched and were afraid for him.

For Michael Costello this was one of more than 8,000 skydives in his life. Three thousand of those dives were with a "new boy" on his back. But Gareth had the parachute, and the parachute wasn't open. Michael couldn't do anything about it.

Michael took Gareth's arms in his hands and pulled him around. Now Michael was under Gareth. Michael hit the ground first and he died. Gareth was on top of Michael and he lived.

When the parachute didn't open, one of them had to die. Michael knew that. He died for Gareth.





"I THOUGHT, 'I'M DEAD...'" Bren Jones's story



Bren Jones is a parachute instructor and he really enjoys aerial ballet. This was a good day for him. It was an aerial ballet and one more of the 3,500 parachute jumps in his life.

Four men jumped from the airplane. They did a beautiful aerial ballet high in the blue sky, at 1,800 meters. Then they opened their parachutes and started to fall at 193 kph. But Bren's parachute hit the parachute of his friend Eddie.

All skydivers have two parachutes, and Eddie opened his second parachute. He came down. But Eddie's first parachute was on Bren's parachute and Bren's parachute closed again. He fell fast with two closed parachutes on his back.

At 120 meters, Bren tried to open his second parachute. It didn't open but it made his fall slower. He fell at only 40 kph. And then he hit the ground, feet first.

He opened his eyes in hospital. "At first I thought, 'I'm dead'," Bren said later. Then I said, "I'll stay here, in this bed." And the doctor said, "Yes, don't jump out." Today Bren is fine.





It started with Wendy - snowboarding



In 1965, the Poppen family were at home in Michigan, US. It was winter and there was snow and ice on the ground. Sherman Poppen watched his daughter go down the ice on some wood. Wendy tried to stand up on the wood, but she couldn't. She fell every time. Sherman had an idea. He went into his garage and made a board. Now we call it a snowboard. That same day, Wendy's friends wanted boards, too.

Snowboarding is good on hard snow and ice. But you can use today's boards on wet snow, too. Extreme snowboarders go down dangerous mountains. They can turn right, turn left... They can go to beautiful places. Only snowboarders and mountain animals see these places.

But in the 1980s, there was a problem. Skiers didn't want the snowboarders on the mountains. Skiers start at the top of a mountain and then go down. Snowboarders go across the mountain, in front of the skiers. But skiers slowly understood the snowboarders' love for the mountains. Now more and more people go snowboarding.

Crested Butte is a beautiful mountain town in Colorado. In 1997, it was the first extreme sports center in the US for snowboarding. In 1998, the Winter X Games were there and snowboarding was one of the games. Now there are snowboarding parks, too. Snowboarders can jump and do tricks on the snow.

Thirty-five years after Wendy Poppen went down the ice in Michigan, the United States Extreme Sports Team had an idea. They wanted to climb the highest mountain in Antarctica and snowboard down the ice. Mount Vincent is almost 5,000 meters high and it's the coldest mountain in the world.

Here's Doug Stoup, of the US Extreme Sports Team. The trip was his idea.

"Antarctica is very cold. It's - 20 degrees when there's no sun. But when the sun comes out, it's hot! Crazy!"

On the mountain, the team tried to sleep as much as possible.

"When you're very high, you get tired. You have to drink a lot of water and eat a lot of food. It doesn't stop snowing here. We're having the worst snow and wind for a hundred years! It's wet snow, good for snowboarding. There's no night here, only 24- hour days. It's light all the time. The hottest time of the day is from four in the afternoon to midnight. I'm learning to sleep by day or night."

The team climbed to the top of Mount Vincent in December 1999. The weather was good and they snowboarded down the mountain.





Under the Water I did cave diving (and lived)



My name's Michael Dean. I'm writing this book for you. These extreme sports are exciting and I love writing about them. But I wanted to do one, too. I wanted to do a new extreme sport - new to me. So I did! I did cave diving for the first time.

Before you can dive, you have to get a C-card. This card says that you can dive underwater with air on your back. That wasn't difficult. I found an instructor. I started to dive. I got a C-card.

"Where do you want to go diving?" my instructor asked me, when I had the C-card.

"Florida," I said. "I want to dive in caves."

"That's dangerous," he said. "One mistake and you die."

So I asked a cave diver, not a C-card instructor.

"Is cave diving dangerous?" I asked John Orlowski.

Orlowski and his wife Shelley are the most famous cave divers in the world. They married underwater in a cave in Mexico.

"Cave diving isn't more dangerous than other diving," said Orlowski, "when the diver has a good instructor and good equipment."

So equipment was the next problem. Diving is an expensive sport. But I bought the equipment. I was ready.

Madison Cave, in Florida, is a very big cave. In big caves, the instructors put lines in the water. Each line is a different color.

The lines stay there all the time and they help the divers. In smaller caves, each diver puts down a line so he or she can get back again.

So this is it. It's the day of my first cave dive, and I have almost 100 kilos of diving equipment on my back. My instructor's name is Kirk. The water in Madison Cave is warm (about 22 degrees) all year, and it's blue. The cave is dark and quiet and very beautiful. So how do I feel? Afraid!

I have the line in my hand. On their first cave dive, divers often have the line in their hand all the time. I can see Kirk's light in front of me. Then, suddenly, I don't see it. Where is he? I want to shout, but I can't. I'm very afraid.

I see his light to the right. He left the blue line and went into another cave! Do I follow him? What did my cave diving instructors say about this? I want to shout Kirk's name. But I can't because we're ten meters down under the water. I have the blue line in my left hand. I stop and wait.

I do nothing for two minutes. It's the longest two minutes of my life. I have an idea. I have an underwater pen, so I can write to Kirk. I can write, "I'm going back up."

Then, I can leave it on the line.

Kirk comes behind me.

I can see his mouth. He's smiling and saying, "Hello." He writes something for me.

"Michael," he writes, "you did the right thing." I smile.

Sometimes people go down into a cave and they don't come up again. So a cave diver never forgets two things. One: Don't leave the line! Two: Don't follow - think!

On my next dive into the Madison, there's a young diver from England with Kirk and me. Her name's Sally and this is her First cave dive.

We follow the line without light. You have to learn that. And then we swim with only half our air. Later, we go to the smaller caves. There's no line. We swim for about eight meters with no air because that's important for a diver. Sometimes you have no air and you have to get up quickly. Down there in the dark, eight meters is a very long time!

We swim back to the line. Kirk pulls the line. OK? he's saying. I pull the line: OK. Sally pulls the line and we go slowly back. But then the water behind me moves. Sally is away from the line, but she has her hand on my leg. She pulls my leg. Then she pulls the equipment on my back.

Oh no! I'm shouting in my head. Get your hand off my air. I don't want to die. I'm shouting, but I'm also turning. I'm trying to help her. Kirk swims under her and pushes her up to the line. She takes the line in her hand and pulls: OK.

That evening, we sit in the warm Florida air and drink coffee.

"Do you like cave diving?" Kirk asks me.

"Yes, I do."

"Do you want to do it again, after you finish the book?" asks Sally.

"Oh yes!"





What's new this week? - canyoning



There's something new in extreme sports every year-no, every week! Sometimes the new sport starts from an old sport. First there was bungee jumping. Now people do canyoning.

When you bungee jump, you jump from a mountain, from a building, or from a bridge. You have a rope around you. Bungee jumping started in New Zealand and the magazine National Geographic wrote about it in 1955. Now 10,000,000 people can say, "I did a bungee jump." The highest bungee jump was 180 meters from a building in Auckland, New Zealand.

When you do canyoning, you also jump with a rope around you. But you fall down and down and down... into very cold water. The sport started in France, and it's dangerous.

In the past, you could go on canyoning vacations in Europe. You paid for two weeks in Switzerland, and you did a lot of jumps. Now, it's more difficult. There aren't as many companies as before. One Swiss company stopped their canyoning vacations when somebody died.

A seventeen-year-old British girl died canyoning in the Blue Mountains near Sydney, Australia. There was no instructor there. She had a rope but no other equipment. The jump was her first time at an extreme sport. The Blue Mountains are beautiful but there's no town there. It was five hours before people found her.

In one year, twenty-one people died. "People are jumping into water head first from places thirty meters high," says extreme sports instructor Phil Maguire. "Sometimes they hit their heads when they go in. And they're jumping into 300 meters of water. Sometimes the water is moving very fast. Some people don't come up again."

BASE jumping is dangerous too, of course, but there's a US BASE Association. The association helps people. There's no canyoning association. There are only young people with no equipment and no instructor.

So what's the answer? Do we stop this extreme sport in beautiful mountains? In some places in the US, you can go to prison for canyoning. But there are some good vacation companies in Switzerland, Austria, France, and Germany. They have instructors and equipment, and they do other mountain sports, too.





Games and Races The X Games



Every year in the US there's a summer X Games (Extreme Sports Games) and a winter X Games. The first summer X Games was in 1995 in Rhode Island. The winter X Games started two years later with mountain biking on snow, ice climbing, and other games. Now there's an Asian X Games, an Australian X Games, a European X Games, an X Games for young people... There are ten X Games around the world.

Dave Mirra, the world's number one BMX rider, was the BMX vert champion.

Dave started to do tricks on a bike when he was thirteen or fourteen. He did five hours of tricks every day.

He was in his first extreme sports race when he was fourteen. Dave was a champion nine times in six X Games. There's a movie about Dave and X Games champion Ryan Nyquist-Miracle Boy and Nyquist. And you can do Dave's tricks on a computer game - Dave Mirra BMX. It really is Dave - Sony filmed his tricks for the game.

And who is the women's extreme sports champion? Maybe the beautiful Mehgan Heaney-Greer from the US diving team. At twenty-one, she can go under the water to fifty-five meters with no air. She stays down there for two minutes and loves it.





Extreme sports races



Close your eyes and think of an extreme sportsman. What did you see? Was he about twenty years old? A big man? That's not Michael Bane.

Michael Bane was forty-six when he started extreme sports. He was fat. He didn't walk to work. But his friend did snowboarding, and one day Michael went with him. Michael was afraid and he fell off the board. When he got home, he was sick. But it was the best day of his life.

Michael had an idea. He wanted to be in the most dangerous extreme sports races in the US. He wanted to do thirteen of them in one year. There were two big problems. Michael couldn't swim, and he was afraid of high places. But he learned to swim. (The other people in the class were all children.) And he went higher and higher in the mountains.

Michael wrote a book, Over the Edge, about his extreme sports races. Here are three of the races in the book.



The Swim from Alcatraz

Alcatraz was a prison in the water near San Francisco. Now, every fall, people swim from there to San Francisco. It's about three kilometers. Two hundred and fifty people are doing it this year and Michael is one of them.

There's one small problem: the water between Alcatraz and San Francisco is very cold. There's a bigger problem, too. The water has sharks in it.



The Death Valley Race

Everybody runs. People run for a bus. That isn't an extreme sport. But some people run 230 kilometers across Death Valley and then up the highest mountain in the US. That's an extreme sport.

Death Valley is in California. It's very hot (51 degrees in the summer) and very dry. The Death Valley Race is in July, the hottest time of the year. It starts at Badwater and goes up Mount Whitney, 4,417 meters high. People carry water for the racers, so nobody dies. Michael ran all 230 kilometers.



The Kamikaze Bike Race

This is the most dangerous bike race in the world. You go down a mountain very fast on a bike. But Michael didn't have a bike. He bought one from a friend for $ 100. Then he went down Mammoth Mountain, California, on it.

Before he started, Michael asked an instructor, "After I start, can I stop?" The answer was, "No, you can't. You'll die."

Michael Bane and the other people in the race went down at 72 kph. Michael didn't stop. He didn't die. And now he isn't afraid.

When people ask, "Why do people do extreme sports?" this is your answer: "Michael Bane was afraid of high places. But then he went up a mountain and raced down that mountain on a bike. Now he has no problem with high places. That's why."





Extreme sports team races



Britain's Mark Burnett started extreme sports team races in 1995. The first race was in Utah, in the US. Teams of five people raced 600 kilometers in ten days by mountain bike, by boat, and on foot.

But this race is different every year. One year, the teams had four people in them, and they had to get out of some difficult places in Borneo, Asia. They had to climb, and they also went hundreds of kilometers across the Pacific Ocean by boat.

All of this was on television. Not everybody likes that. Some people say that TV is the boss in extreme sports. American Don Mann started "The Beast" in May 2000. The race isn't on television and there are no expensive boats on the Pacific. The team walks 480 kilometers across Alaska, one of the coldest places in the world. And each person on the team pays $7,500 for the trip!





- THE END -

Hope you have enjoyed the reading!

Come back to http://english-e-reader.net/ to find more fascinating and exciting stories!





